Adding Konnect Reference Platform (#783)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/konnect-reference-platform/apiops.md

---
title: Konnect Reference Platform - APIOps
content_type: reference
layout: reference

products:
    - api-ops

description: Provides details on how the Konnect Reference Platform uses APIOps

breadcrumbs:
  - /konnect-reference-platform/

related_resources:
- text: Reference Platform Home
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/
- text: Reference Platform How-To
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/how-to/
- text: Reference Platform FAQ
  url: /konnect-reference-platform/faq/
---

[APIOps](/deck/apiops/) is the practice of applying DevOps and GitOps principles to the API lifecycle. It is the application
of process automation and tools that enable teams to manage APIs in a more efficient and repeatable way. 

> The [{{site.konnect_short_name}} Reference Platform](/konnect-reference-platform) uses APIOps to automate the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [{{site.konnect_short_name}} Reference Platform](/konnect-reference-platform/) uses APIOps to automate the 
```

delivery of APIs to production in auditable, consistent, and repeatable manner.

> Currently the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Reference Platform supports GitHub Actions for APIOps workflows. In future versions
> we will explore support for other popular CI/CD tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Reference Platform supports GitHub Actions for APIOps workflows. In future versions
we will explore support for other popular CI/CD tools.
```

### How are the APIOps workflows deployed?

The GitHub Actions workflow files are managed by the [{{site.konnect_short_name}} Orchestrator](/konnect-reference-platform/orchestrator) and deployed 

> to the platform repository. When the orchestrator's reconciliation loop runs, it will check for changes to the workflow files and stage them as a PR for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the platform repository. When the orchestrator's reconciliation loop runs, it checks for changes to the workflow files and stages them as a PR for 
```

platform administrators to review and approve. Once the PR is approved, the workflow files are deployed and begin to operate on API specifications
in the platform repository. The process of initializing the platform repository is covered in the 
[{{site.konnect_short_name}} Reference Platform how-to guide](/konnect-reference-platform/how-to/).

### How do API Specifications flow through the Reference Platform?

Currently, API Specifications are copied from service repositories to the platform repository
by the {{site.konnect_short_name}} Orchestrator. This is by design to allow onboarding new services to 
the platform easily and without disruption to service application teams. In future versions of the reference platform, 
we will explore extended federated approaches to API specification management.

> During the orchestrators reconciliation loop, it will check for changes to API specifications
> in the configured service repositories and stage changed specifications to the platform repository as a PR. 
> When these PRs are reviewed and approved by platform administrators, the APIOps workflows are triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the orchestrator's reconciliation loop, it checks for changes to API specifications
in the configured service repositories and stages changed specifications to the platform repository as a PR. 
When these PRs are reviewed and approved by platform administrators, the APIOps workflows are triggered.
```

### What are the workflows in the Konnect Reference Platform?

There are 3 main workflows used to deliver APIs to {{site.base_gateway}}. These workflows are completed in
sequence, with administrator approval between each step. Completion of final workflow results in a deployed
API to the API gateway.

> * **OpenAPI to Kong**: This workflow takes an OpenAPI specification and converts it to 
>   a decK file that can be used by {{site.base_gateway}}. Additionally, service specific patches are
>   applied to the deck file allowing administrators to set overrides for specific APIs.
> * **Stage decK changes**: This workflow takes the decK file generated by the OpenAPI to Kong workflow
>   and compares it to the current state of the {{site.base_gateway}}. It generates a diff and stages the changes
>   as a PR. 
> * **decK sync**: This workflow is triggered by the merging of deck configuration files to the main branch (by the previous workflow PR approval).
>   The workflow triggers a `deck gateway sync` command on the configuration files and applies the changes to {{site.base_gateway}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **OpenAPI to Kong**: This workflow takes an OpenAPI specification and converts it to 
  a decK file that can be used by {{site.base_gateway}}. Additionally, Service-specific patches are
  applied to the decK file, allowing administrators to set overrides for specific APIs.
2. **Stage decK changes**: This workflow takes the decK file generated by the OpenAPI to Kong workflow
  and compares it to the current state of the {{site.base_gateway}}. It generates a diff and stages the changes
  as a PR. 
3. **decK sync**: This workflow is triggered by the merging of decK configuration files to the main branch (by the previous workflow PR approval).
  The workflow triggers a `deck gateway sync` command on the configuration files and applies the changes to {{site.base_gateway}}.
```
If they're completed in this order, then a numbered list makes more sense here.

Additionally, the reference platform supports API conformance checks to ensure that specifications are 
following governance controls and best practices. This is done using the `deck file lint` command 
which is executed in a GitHub Action workflow. These conformance workflows are run on PRs that contain
changes to API specifications and deck configuration files. 

> You can see examples of these workflows in action in the [Kong Airlines example project](https://github.com/KongAirlines/platform/actions).

Reviewer: Is it Kong Airlines, KongAirlines, or KongAir? I've seen all three in this PR so far.

### How do the workflows work and interact with each other?

The workflows are triggered by changes to files in the platform repository. The workflows are coded to 
only run when specific files have changed. When the orchestrator updates an API Specification file, the initial

> workflow is ran, staging changes to the platform repository. The administrators only need to review and approve the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workflow is run, staging changes to the platform repository. The administrators only need to review and approve the
```

end

subgraph StageDeckChange["Stage decK changes"]
    direction TB
    sdc-f@{shape: docs, label: "kong-from-oas.yaml"}
    sdc-f --> sdc-w@{ shape: rect, label: "deck file merge"}
    sdc-w --> sdc-f2@{ shape: doc, label: "kong.yaml"}
    sdc-f2 --> sdc-w2@{ shape: rect, label: "deck gateway diff"}
    sdc-w2 -- "creates PR" --> sdc-pr@{ shape: lin-doc, label: "calculated diff"}
end

subgraph ApplyDeckChange["decK sync"]
    direction TB
    adc-f@{ shape: doc, label: "kong.yaml"}
    adc-f --> adc-w@{ shape: rect, label: "deck gateway sync"}
end

end

Apply -- "PR approved" --> SpecToDeck
SpecToDeck -- "PR approved" --> StageDeckChange
StageDeckChange -- "PR approved" --> ApplyDeckChange

{% endmermaid %}

#### Legend
{% mermaid %}
flowchart TB
a@{ shape: lin-cyl, label: "Source Code Repository"}
b@{ shape: rect, label: "Process"}
c@{ shape: lin-doc, label: "Pull Request"}
e@{ shape: doc, label: "File"}
f@{ shape: docs, label: "Files"}
{% endmermaid %}

<!--vale on -->

### What about organizations and environments 

The {{site.konnect_short_name}} Reference Platform supports multiple organizations and environments.

> When the orchestrator copies API specifications from service repositories to the platform repository, it will
> place them into a directory structure that follows this pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the orchestrator copies API specifications from service repositories to the platform repository, it
places them into a directory structure that follows this pattern:
```

> `/konnect/<organization>/envs/<environment>/teams/<team>/services/<service-path>/openapi.yaml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/konnect/{organization}/envs/{environment}/teams/{team}/services/{service-path}/openapi.yaml`
```

> APIOps workflows are configured with an API Key that grants them access to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIOps workflows are configured with an API key that grants them access to 
```

> individual {{site.konnect_short_name}} organizations. Every environment gets it's own set of
> Control Planes (one per team). The APIOps workflows use this well known file structure to 
> target the proper organization, environment, and team's Control Plane for configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
individual {{site.konnect_short_name}} organizations. Every environment gets its own set of
Control Planes (one per team). The APIOps workflows use this well known file structure to 
target the proper organization, environment, and team's Control Plane for configuration. 
```

### What's next?

> You can follow a step-by-step [how-to guide](/konnect-reference-platform/how-to) to 
> implement your own usage of the reference platform. The [FAQ](/konnect-reference-platform/faq/)
> also has answers to many questions you have before proceeding with a full installation. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can follow a step-by-step [how-to guide](/konnect-reference-platform/how-to/) to 
implement the reference platform in your own preferred way. 
* The [FAQ](/konnect-reference-platform/faq/)
also has answers to many questions you may have before proceeding with a full installation. 
```
